Add smolagents phoenix blog (#2683)
huggingface/blog: smolagents-phoenix.md

[Arize Phoenix](https://phoenix.arize.com/) provides a centralized platform to trace, evaluate, and debug your agent's decisions in real time—all in one place. We’ll dive into how you can implement them to refine and optimize your agent. Because building is just the beginning—true intelligence comes from knowing exactly what’s happening under the hood.

For this, let’s make sure that we have an Agent setup\! You can follow along with the following steps or use your own agent. 

## Make An Agent

### Step 1: Install the Required Libraries 

```py
pip install -q smolagents
```

### Step 2: Import all the Essential Building Blocks 

Now let’s bring in the classes and tools we’ll be using:

```py
from smolagents import (
   CodeAgent,
   DuckDuckGoSearchTool,
   VisitWebpageTool,
   HfApiModel,
)
```

### Step 3: Set Up Our Base Models 

> We’ll create two model instances—one for a local or custom model, and one for the Hugging Face Hub:

Reviewer: > We’ll create two model instances—one for a local or custom model

I'm guessing this was from an older verison of the post? Probably can reword this:

```suggestion
We’ll create a model instance powered by the Hugging Face Hub Serverless API:
```

*“Fetch the share price of Google from 2020 to 2024, and create a line graph from it?”*

```py
agent.run("fetch the share price of google from 2020 to 2024, and create a line graph from it?")
```

Your agent will now:

1. Use DuckDuckGoSearchTool to search for historical share prices of Google.  
2. Potentially visit pages with the VisitWebpageTool to find that data.  
3. Attempt to gather information and generate or describe how to create the line graph.

## Trace Your Agent

Once your agent is running, the next challenge is making sense of its internal workflow. Tracing helps you track each step your agent takes—from invoking tools to processing inputs and generating responses—allowing you to debug issues, optimize performance, and ensure it behaves as expected.

To enable tracing, we’ll use Arize Phoenix for visualization, and OpenTelemetry \+ OpenInference for instrumentation.

Install the telemetry module from smolagents:

```py
pip install -q 'smolagents[telemetry]'
```

You can run Phoenix in a bunch of different ways. This command will run a local instance of Phoenix on your machine:

```py
python -m phoenix.server.main serve
```

> For other hosting options of Phoenix, you can [create a free online instance of Phoenix](https://app.phoenix.arize.com/login/sign-up), or [self-host the application locally](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix/deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other hosting options of Phoenix, you can [create a free online instance of Phoenix](https://app.phoenix.arize.com/login/sign-up), [self-host the application locally](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix/deployment), or [host the application on Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/learn/cookbook/en/phoenix_observability_on_hf_spaces).
```

After launching, we register a tracer provider, pointing to our Phoenix instance.

```py
from phoenix.otel import register
from openinference.instrumentation.smolagents import SmolagentsInstrumentor

tracer_provider = register(project_name="my-smolagents-app") # creates a tracer provider to capture OTEL traces
SmolagentsInstrumentor().instrument(tracer_provider=tracer_provider) # automatically captures any smolagents calls as traces
```

Now any calls made to smolagents will be sent through to our Phoenix instance.

> #### Step 4: Run the Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the Agent
```

### Step 1: Install OpenAI  

First, install the necessary packages:

```py
pip install -q openai
```

We’ll be using GPT-4o to evaluate whether the search tool’s responses are relevant.   
This method, known as LLM-as-a-judge, leverages language models to classify and score responses.

### Step 2: Retrieve Tool Execution Spans 

To evaluate how well DuckDuckGo is retrieving information, we first need to extract the execution traces where the tool was called.

```py
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery
import phoenix as px
import json

query = SpanQuery().where(
    "name == 'DuckDuckGoSearchTool'",
).select(
    input="input.value", # this parameter must be named input to work with the RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE
    reference="output.value", # this parameter must be named reference to work with the RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE
)

# The Phoenix Client can take this query and return the dataframe.
tool_spans = px.Client().query_spans(query, project_name="my-smolagents-app")

tool_spans["input"] = tool_spans["input"].apply(lambda x: json.loads(x).get("kwargs", {}).get("query", ""))

> tool_spans.head()

Reviewer: Nit: might be good to show a preview of the output so its easier to conceptualize whats being returned here?

```py
from phoenix.evals import (
    RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_RAILS_MAP,
    RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE,
    OpenAIModel,
    llm_classify
)
import nest_asyncio
nest_asyncio.apply()

print(RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE)
```

### Step 4: Run the Evaluation  

Now, we run the evaluation using **GPT-4o** as the judge:

```py
from phoenix.evals import (
    llm_classify,
    OpenAIModel,
    RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE,
)

eval_model = OpenAIModel(model="gpt-4o")

eval_results = llm_classify(
    dataframe=tool_spans,
    model=eval_model,
    template=RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE,
    rails=["relevant", "unrelated"],
    concurrency=10,
    provide_explanation=True,
)
eval_results["score"] = eval_results["explanation"].apply(lambda x: 1 if "relevant" in x else 0)
```

What’s happening here?

* We use GPT-4o to analyze the search query (input) and search result (output).  
* The LLM classifies whether the result is relevant or unrelated based on the prompt.  
* We assign a binary score (1 \= relevant, 0 \= unrelated) for further analysis.

To see your results: 

```py

> eval_results.head()

Reviewer: Nit: same here, that we could show the the augmented dataframe
